[ Both laughing ]
[ Bang! ]
[ Both grunt ]
♪♪
[ Roars ]
Aah!
-Whoa!
♪♪
[ Chuckles ]
Okay, Vic.
I'm glad we see eye-to-eye
on expanding
our business.
But first, we got
to learn how to make --
Boring!
Hey, piñata making
is a dying art.
Don't you want to keep
the tradition alive?
Geez, okay.
Yes.
Okay.
Watch me now.
First, we take
one piece of paper.
Next, we dip in our --
Hey! Where's my
bowl of paste?
[ Growls ]
I'm a zombie!
I'm melting.
If you're a zombie,
how come you walk
like a mummy?
You dare question
the mumm-bie?
And you wasted all
of the paste I made!
Now, you go get me
some flour and water
so I can make more.
I can't.
Victor...
No, I mean
I can't move.
The paste
hardened on me.
Uh...
Hey! You broke
the mumm-bie's curse.
Right. Now, go get some
more flour, please.
There's probably more
in the basement.
Ugh, fine.
Lame-o Val.
"Go get me some
more flour and water
so I can make my cruddy piñata."
All we do is work.
Where's the adventure
in that, Val?
Uh...
Ow!
Whoa.
What is that?
Oooooh.
Shiny and forbidden.
Wait till Val sees this.
No way. That room is
off-limits for a reason.
Come on. What if there's
a treasure chest inside
and it's full
of old coins?
I'm not --
Collectible coins.
[ Gasps ]
All right, Vic.
Show me where they are.
What? Oh, I was
just pranking you.
No coins,
but check this out.
It's full
of action figures.
Like this coyote one.
Pretty cool, huh?
Wait a sec. These
aren't action figures.
They're alebrijes!
Ala-what-uhs?
Alebrijes.
They're traditional folk art
made of papier-mâché,
like the piñatas
we were making.
What? Stop making
cool stuff boring.
Why would Grandma not
want us to find these?
It's not like they're --
Dangerous?
-Aah!
Traviesos.
I can't believe you didn't
ask permission.
Because if you did,
I would've said...
Of course you can.
[ Both exhale deeply ]
When you're old enough!
-Aah!
But you're good kids,
and you're
growing up so fast.
Now, let me
tell you the legend
of that coyote
you're holding in your hands.
Huehuecoyotl, the god of
mischief himself,
made the gods look like fools.
He had to be stopped.
So a miniature
of the beast was made.
And when the magic words
were spoken three times...
Estas atrapado!
...he was trapped
inside the alebrije,
assuring the people that he
would never bother them again.
So be careful.
If any of these alebrijes
were to break,
it would release
an ancient spirit.
And they'll have
to deal with me!
Also there is an ancient spirit
inside that cookie jar,
so stay out of that, too.
Okay, off to bingo, bye!
[ Door closes ]
Estas apapado!
Estas atatado!
Whoa, careful with that!
Didn't you hear
what she just said?
Oh, please.
I can't believe you'd
fall for that
ancient spirit nonsense.
Hey, I'm as skeptical
as it gets.
But it's probably best not
to rule anything out
and be extra
careful when we...
[ Grunting ]
What are you doing?
What does it look like?
I'm playing, carefully.
It's fine.
Vic!
What?
-Release us!
-Let us out!
[ Both panting ]
[ Roars ]
-Aah!
And where do you think
you're going...
...without letting
me thank you?
My name is Huehuecoyote,
but you can call me Huehue.
I've been trapped in
that thing for years.
And now I'm free!
But enough talk.
I got to make up for lost time
and have some fun!
[ Laughs ]
Come on, Vic!
Let's go catch that thing!
Ooh!
What's this?
Hola, quinceañera.
Great party, but that dress
looks like a tube sock.
Aah!
Hey!
Ay. My eyebrows
rubbed off.
Eh, they look better
like that anyway.
Cannonball!
[ Panting ]
There he is!
[ Laughs ]
Not funny, Vic.
Oh, yes, it was.
Hey, Huehue.
Hola, hola,
mis amigos.
Yeah, Coyote.
You know, since we're
amigos now and all,
we were thinking
maybe you could --
Take you on a magical frolic
full of mischief and pranks?
Actually,
I-I was thinking...
Yes!
Let's do it!
Fantastic!
Let's go.
♪♪
Whoo-hoo!
[ Laughter ]
♪♪
All: Dada?
What was -- Huh?
[ All giggling ]
Aah!
No!
[ Laughter ]
And that
is how you prank.
You know, I'm a master
pranktologist myself.
Pretty ambitious, eh?
[ Groans ] You could not
even spell it right.
There. That is how you
spell "Victor Rules."
Ohhhh.
If you're going
to cause mischief
in the presence
of a mischief god,
I expect
a certain standard.
Okay,
enough is enough.
Let's trap this guy
and get him
back to
Grandma's basement.
Come on, Val.
This town is so boring.
I just wanted to have a little
fun, and he's hilarious.
Not if you're the butt
of his jokes.
I'm putting
a stop to this.
Okay, what were those
magic words again?
Estas atrapado!
[ Growls ]
Aah!
Trying to
capture me, are you?
Well, guess what.
Without the alebrije
you broke,
I am staying right here!
[ Grunts ]
Aaaaah!
Hey! Val could've gotten
hurt there, you know?
Yeah, whatever.
Let's keep this
prank train rolling.
Aaayyyyy!
Ooh!
What do we have here?
Aaah!
Ow.
Here we go!
[ Laughs ]
Hey, that's our stand.
No need to prank that.
Fresh tacos?
Ugh.
More like
fresh manure.
Yeah, you know,
Val's gonna be
pretty ticked
when he sees that.
Val?
Oh, you mean Lame-o,
who tried to imprison me
when we're having
so much fun?
No, Huehue.
This isn't fun anymore.
And you're being
a huge jerk.
Oh, really?
I think it's time
to break my real friends
out of your house.
No!
Hey!
Vic!
Where's Huehue?
He's in the house.
What if he gets into our room
and wrecks all my stuff?
I don't know, Vic.
That sounds like it
could be pretty funny.
What's wrong with you?
That's not funny.
Of course not,
when it's happening to you.
Ohhhh.
Right, right, right.
Look, I'm sorry.
I was a jerk.
But you got to
help me catch him.
How? You broke the only thing
we could capture him in.
Then why not make
a new one?
That might work.
Uh, but it'll
take a while, though.
Don't worry.
I'll keep him distracted.
You get to making
that alebrije.
The decor in here
is wretched!
Wait, wait,
wait, wait, wait!
Come to stop me?
I just wanted
to make sure
you didn't prank
any of my stuff.
For example, I wouldn't
want anything bad
to happen to my journal of
priceless ideas and memories.
Give me that!
Ugh, you can't spell
anything right, can you?
Ah.
[ Laughs ]
So pathetic.
And what
could be in here?
I do have something in
here you might like --
this luchador costume I've been
working on for months.
Care to dance?
[ Strauss' "Blue Danube Waltz"
plays ]
Play the drum, boy.
[ Humming song ]
♪♪
[ Laughs ]
[ Stomach growling ]
Welp, time to unleash
all of my mischief-making
friends downstairs.
Yo! We need
that alebrije, now!
Okay.
I'm almost done.
Remember
the magic words.
Yeah, three times,
I know.
Together: Estas atrapado!
Estas atra--
I told you.
I am not
going back in there!
[ Grunts ]
[ Panting ]
Aah!
Together: Estas atrapado!
Estas atra--
[ Both groaning ]
Teddy bear, teddy bear,
turn around.
[ Whistling ]
Ay!
Ta-da!
Now, up you go,
and stay out of my way!
Awaken, my mischief makers...
[ Straining ]
[ Talking indistinctly ]
Hey, Huehue.
Bet you can't do nothing
about that!
Ay, ay, ay.
What did I tell you, eh?
Don't you dare try to prank
the God of Mischief
if you're not going
to do it right!
There. That is how you spell
"estas atrapado."
Oy, I just said it
a third time, didn't I?
Uh-huh.
[ Grunts ]
Aah!
You've been out-pranked,
so stay in there forever,
or you'll have to deal with me.
Aaah!
♪♪
But why?
Wha--?
My dress!
My eyebrows!
Do I still look better
without them?
[ Chuckles nervously ]
Ahh.
Glad that's over.
Boys?
You still down here?
Uh, yeah, Grandma.
We just, uh, really like
these alebrijes.
I can see.
You know what?
Here. Go ahead
and play with this one.
I trust you two
not to break it.
[ Laughs ]
Eh, no, no, no.
We're good.
We're fine, Grandma.
Ooh.
Sounds like you two
saw a spirit or something.
[ Laughs ]
♪♪
[ Both laughing ]